despite the long tradition of soap
making in Palestine the blockade during
Israel's war on Gaza means there is a
chronic shortage in the
strip the products most in demand are
dishwashing liquid laundry detergent and
shampoo these products are in high
demand and almost unavailable we barely
managed to secure them shampoo is
completely out of
stock far more than inconvenient the
shortage is exacerbating the rapid
spread of skin diseases and lice among
the nearly 2 million displaced people
most of whom are living in overcrowded
tents or temporary
shelters there are no toilets bathrooms
or sewage facilities running water
washing machines and even soap are
luxuries disinfectants are crucial
medicines that play Vital role in our
daily lives we urge any country
organization to help provide us with
disinfectants so that skin diseases
don't keep
spreading to address the challenge these
men in De El Bala in central Gaza are
making their own liquid detergent and
selling
it others have a different
solution I searched the whole Market I
couldn't find detergent and a bar of
soap costs around $10 to $13 so I bought
a chlorine tablet and put it in the
water to wash Gaza Health authorities
have recorded 1.7 million cases of
infectious diseases including scabies
and chickenpox since Israel's War Began
on October the 7th and as with many
diseases those worse affected are
children imagin Kimber Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer